-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to go ahead
and then deploy the manifest and test it.
So before going there we are going to quickly look into
I have changed the DN, DNS names
for us to be services iPhone xray.cube1cloud.com
and then xraydemo.cube1cloud.com.
And I have also updated the same
in our architecture diagrams and also
in our respective Ingress manifest also.
Okay, so why I change it is
because there might be DNS cash issues once we execute our
once we execute this section
the previous section related to microservice too well
and then immediately we execute 13.
So there might be issues related to DNS caching
and all those things we might encounter
and example I can show you here.
Okay, so there is no services.cube
on cloud.com in my record sets here, okay?
So, but if you see the DNS resolution here
it keeps resolving to the older IPS.
So like this, there might be some issues you might encounter
and then face other issues and then your
your demo might not work for a while
and then later after one hour or two hours it might work.
But wasting our time like that is not good.
So that's the reason what I've done is like I have ensured
that we have new domain names for this x-ray demo also.
So like that only we continue
in our previous sections also we are going to
continue the same thing here.
So now let's go back and then deploy the stuff.
So cube CTL apply-F and then cube manifest
and our content is present in 02 applications folder.
So till there we are going to go ahead
and then execute the stuff.
Okay, so I will say copy paste, I am
in 13 microservices section and I am deploying the manifest.
So it is creating the user management microservice
all the microservices.
So cube CTL and get what should list the parts
and I'll also verify that Ingress.
Okay, so that Ingress also got created.
So now if we go back to our route 53
ideally our route 53 domain should be created.
Now it should be getting created
it'll take a while to create.
So what we'll do is like we'll pause the video
until entire whatever the EC2 related load
balancer also got provisioned.
So it should be in provisioning state.
Once this is completed then we will resume
and then test all other stuff.
Our load balancer is active now.
So let's copy the DNS, let's do the DNS checks first.
So Ns look up
and paste it
and it has 2 1 3 and then 1 5 6 at the end.
So keep
I'll also say NS lookup xraydemo dot
(typing sounds)
cube1cloud.com.
So 2 1 3 and then 1 5 6.
This looks good.
So we'll be able to access our service
and then test it, right?
So now the next thing is let's go back here
and then you can access the service
on our browser and then test it.
So I can even take this directly
and then access it on the browser.
So if you see it here
application is notification microservice app version is V1
and then messages enable AWS xray.
So we can even test this
via postman by adding the environment.
So I'll add the environment and then say
X-ray microservices
and allow the URL
and URL is going to be this much right?
(mouse clicks)
Alright it and I'll change to x-ray microservices
and this is the notification x-ray service.
So I'm going to access it
and notification microservice and then V1
and then enable AWS x-ray for this respective service.
We are getting that.
So I'm going to access a couple
of times here and then go ahead
and then go to the x-ray and then see the stuff.
Okay? So you can even verify your route 53
domains already created, right?
So I need to browser refresh to get these details usually.
Okay, so we got everything related
to services xray.cube1cloud.com
or x-raydemo.cube1cloud.com.
So now let's go back to our x-ray service, right?
So X-ray
Let me close this and now the service map is creating
for our last five minutes.
So let it get created.
So now you can see here the service map from client
it went to user management microservice
and from user management microservice it went
to notification microservice.
Okay, so in service map we can see that very clearly.
So now if you want to get the traces of this information
so we can go and then click
on traces and we can select the specific trace.
So these are health check related URLs
which is triggering from load balancer or
from our node port service, whatever we have created, right?
So those things, but this is specifically
whatever we have accessed from browser, right?
X-raydemo.cube1cloud.com/usermgmt/notificationX-ray
So let's go inside that and you can say
inside that you can find these are the traces
these many times I have access it as of now.
Okay, so if I want I can keep sending the request
and then these traces keeps getting increased.
Okay, so I'm
I'm going to access five more times I have access it.
So currently five is there.
So when I refresh it
so now you should see 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10.
So we have got 10 traces.
Okay? So any trace you can open it like this, right?
And if you see it here it's map will be displayed here
in detail.
So response is 200 and duration is 677 milliseconds.
Age is like 2.9 minutes before I have access to this.
Okay? And let me make this bigger.
So it is the same thing, right?
So user management microservice
and then V1 notification microservice.
So where are these hosted?
So that you can see here AWS EKS container you can see
in the down right EKS container and as usual if you see
and then go inside traces how the request went in.
So the request first hit the user management
microservice container, right?
So it's information is here, this is the start time
and time how much it took and the request
URL is this one and request user is from Mac OS browser.
I have tried once.
That is the first request, right?
And the client IPs this one, okay, so
if you go back and then take another trace, right?
So like recent traces.
So what what will happen
with the recent traces is so let's make it bigger here.
Yeah. And if you go down
and then if you open the user management microservice
if you see the request user agent now is postman run time.
So because we access it via postman
and then ask forward for true and then response status 200.
So this is the overview section, but you will have
the resources section which will provide the log group
in which our logs are present.
And in addition
to that availability zone where this request is running
and then instance ID use our worker node ID and
then our worker node size and the AIM ID our worker
node Kubernetes worker node and as SDK version
it has used and SDK it used is x-ray for Java, right?
And now this is the important fact, okay so which
in Kubernetes to which part it went and inside that part
to which container it went also we can identify
using x-ray tracing which is nothing but it went
to user management microservice part so and so part, okay
so if you want KMG6G, okay
so if you want we can say cube CTL get ports and
then match our port name here, right?
So see KMG6G
that is the one and inside that, this is the
container ID it went, where the request went in.
So that's about the user management microservices
tracing here it took 24 milliseconds and from there it went
to the get notification app in four, right?
So that is my method present
in my user management microservice.
So inside that method it went in and then
from there it called the notification cluster IP service
correct? Right?
So if you take the architecture
after UMS part from this, it comes then
it'll call the notification cluster IP service.
So it called the notification cluster IP service
and notification cluster IP services notification
cluster IP:8096/notification/x-ray.
So that is the path it has called.
And now from there it is going to go
to the notification service.
The next thing is from there it went to here
it took eight milliseconds near this service
and then it went to notification microservice, okay?
Which is nothing
but the notification microservice deployment inside
that the respective container and then port, right?
So if you go here
notification microservice pod and it's equivalent container.
So that's good.
So now from there it went into the, again, the method
inside that container there will be a code running, right?
What is that method?
Okay, so this is the method notification
app version service method, it went
in and then it server the request back.
So to this level we can see
that detailed tracing what happened for our application.
And if you see here
this is whatever you are seeing in the UM model, you can see
in the GSN format data, raw data also you can see it.
So this is about the entire tracing.
Whatever we have done means
like the request came from client to user management
user management to notification service, as I told earlier
only for specific service inside user controller.
I have enabled this stuff
which means whenever you call call only this respective
notification, microservice related x-ray service
then only this from user management
to notification will go and then it'll be displayed here.
So it's equal and module I have user here
to develop this code
but rest of the other stuff which is like nothing.
But if I call other notification
health status services example, you have something here
right? Notification, service info
and then notification health status.
So for them the new note is going to get created
and then it'll show
as client only client to that notification services.
I am going to show it to you now.
So let's go back and then access them now.
So there are additional core changes required
for every service to do and then get this one
microservice calling another microservice.
How you want to do all these things are development
related efforts when we are doing it, okay?
But I just want to show you a few things here.
Okay, so I'm calling notification health status
service, right?
And I'll call for some time, right?
And I'll also call service in for service, okay?
All we are calling via user management only.
Okay, so what happens?
We are going to see let's go here
and then refresh it, right?
So now the map updates in a different way.
So let the map see now you can see
so client to notification, right?
So this client here is nothing but whenever you're
calling it is user management microservice also call this
and then you'll get some additional data here, okay?
So another picture you'll get, okay
so I'll say our last 15 minutes I'll say and then refresh.
So you'll get a different picture here.
So whatever you are calling this notification microservice
it is going by a user management microservice
but still that user management microservice
system is feeling that it is going to be client only.
The reason for that is I didn't enable the
STTP client builder
for this notification health service.
I'm using standard spring boot related REST template
for calling another microservice.
So this is core development related
but why I am trying to explain this here is when
you are enabling x-ray in your applications
there will be a good amount
of development effort required for you.
And then lot of thought process thinking is required here.
So if you see here
there will be lots of references which tells us
in which section what we need to do
and all these things, okay?
So these are related to X-ray enablement on Kubernetes.
But if you see here, right?
So SDK Java configuration and
SDK Java configuration plugins
and STTP clients and filters and then SQL clients.
So like this, there will be multiple other stuffs in x-rays
SDK for Java or x-rays, SDK for node JS
and then other Python or whatever, right?
So good amount of development level of work is required
in your application to enable this, but when you enable it
these are the benefits you are going to get.
Hand in hand means like you are able to see everything
in a detailed way, step by step.
So that's about the X-ray so far.
So in our next lecture we are going to clean up the stuff.
I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.